feat(post): load balancing and caching at aws (#285)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2021-11-18-hsdo.md

---
layout: post
title: "More efficient Load Balancing and Caching at AWS, using Consistent Hashing and HAProxy"
description: "Why and how implement consistent hashing based load balancing at AWS with HSDO"
author:
    name: Tanguy Falconnet
avatar:
email:
twitter: 
github: tfalconnet
category:
tags: [aws, cloud, sysadmin, HAProxy, video, opensource, high availability]
comments: true
image:
  feature: posts/bonnes-pratiques-web/bedrock.jpg
language: en
---

> # Introduction

Author: ```suggestion
```

AWS ALB & NLB currently supports Round-Robin (RR) and Least Outstanding Requests (LOR) routing algorithms. But what happens when you try to load balance cache servers with these algorithms ? How to implement an effective cache in Cloud at scale ?

# Context

> At Bedrock we are using both ALB & NLB in our platforms for different use-cases (for example [in front of our Kubernetes clusters](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/Three-years-running-kubernetes-on-production-at-Bedrock/)). For our last VOD platform, we needed to be able to load balance in front of caches with heavy content: videos. We knew that the balancing algorithm was a key factor for our cache in Cloud at scale, and that ALB & NLB won’t be sufficient to achieve our goals. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Bedrock we use both ALB & NLB for different use-cases (like [in front of our Kubernetes clusters](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/Three-years-running-kubernetes-on-production-at-Bedrock/)) in our platforms. For our last VOD platform, we needed to be able to load balance heavy content (videos) to our cache servers. We knew that the balancing algorithm was a key factor for our cache in Cloud at scale, and that ALB & NLB won’t be sufficient to achieve our goals. 
```

# Balancing algorithm

> Round-Robin is one of the simplest balancing algorithms.

Author: "well-known" serait plus adapté ?

> Round-Robin is one of the simplest balancing algorithms.

Author: ```suggestion
Round-Robin is a widely used balancing algorithms.
```

![Round robin or Least Outstanding Requests algorithms](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image8.png)
<center><ins>Round robin or Least Outstanding Requests algorithms</ins></center>

> It cycles through cache servers sequentially, so each cache server should receive an equal share of requests. Each cache server has to possibly store every requested object (♠️, ♥️, ♦️, and ♣️ represent different objects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The load balancer cycles through cache servers sequentially, so each cache server should receive an equal share of requests. Each cache server has to possibly store every requested object (♠️, ♥️, ♦️, and ♣️ represent different objects).
```

> With Least Outstanding Requests, load balancers send requests to the cache server with least awaiting requests. With this algorithm too, the cache server has to store every requested object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Least Outstanding Requests, load balancers send requests to the cache server with least awaiting requests. The cache server still has to store every requested object.
```

> Consistent Hashing is a very interesting hashing technic for caching purposes.

Author: ```suggestion
Consistent Hashing is a very interesting hashing method for caching purposes.
```

![Consistent Hashing method](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image9.png)

> <center><ins>Consistent Hashing method</ins></center>

Author: Vincent m'a remonté le fait que le consistent hashing n'est pas un algorithm de load balancing à proprement parlé. Il s'agit plutôt de load balancing basé sur les hash, dont le consistent hashing est une méthode.

> <center><ins>Consistent Hashing method</ins></center>

Author: Mais finalement ça ne fait que perdre le lecteur, donc je vais virer cette notion, même si ce n'est pas strictement vrai.

> This hashing method allows to distribute load so that all requests for the same object will always go to the same cache server. This way, each cache server has to store half of the objects.

Author: ```suggestion
This hashing method allows to distribute the load so that all requests for the same object will always go to the same cache server. This way, each cache server has to store half of the objects.
```

> And the more cache servers you have, the more requests are split between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And more cache servers means more load balancing between the servers.
```

![Consistent Hashing at scale](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image10.png)
<center><ins>Consistent Hashing at scale</ins></center>

> While at scale, Round-Robin or Least Outstanding Requests will be:

Author: ```suggestion
While at scale, Round-Robin or Least Outstanding Requests will look like this:
```

![Round Robin or Least Outstanding Requests at scale](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image5.png)

<center><ins>Round Robin or Least Outstanding Requests at scale</ins></center>

> Cache servers are not efficient at scale with Round-Robin or Least Outstanding Requests. You have a higher chance to have a cache miss, because requested objects need to be present on every cache server. Every time a cache expires or cache server boots, objects need to be cached again to be hit. It also consumes more resources as the same object needs to be cached on all cache server disks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cache servers are not efficient at scale with these algorithms. There is a higher chance for the cache to miss, because all servers do not store all objects. Every time a cache expires or cache server boots, objects need to be cached again to be hit. You also need more resources, as the same object needs to be cached on all cache servers disks.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Cache servers are not efficient at scale with these algorithms. There is a higher chance for the cache to miss, because all servers do not store all objects. Every time a cache expires or cache server boots, objects need to be cached again to be hit. You also need more resources, as the same object needs to be cached on all cache server disks.
```

> While you have a greater chance with Consistent Hashing that once an object has been cached, you hit it. And you save money by using smaller disks on cache servers and reducing network bandwidth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Consistent Hashing, once an object has been cached you have a greater chance for the cache to hit. And you save money by using smaller disks on cache servers and reducing network bandwidth.
```

# HAProxy implementation

> Consistent Hashing at AWS is not available for ALB, ELB and NLB. You need to implement it yourself. To do this, we chose to use HAProxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consistent Hashing at AWS is not available with ALB, ELB and NLB. You need to implement it yourself.  
To do this, we chose to use HAProxy.
```

HAproxy is fast and reliable. We use it often, we know it well, and it can use consistent hashing. This is how we architected it. 

![Load Balanced Cache Architecture Schema](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image6.png)
<center><ins>Load Balanced Cache Architecture</ins></center>

> HAProxy servers and Cache servers are deployed with Auto Scaling groups (ASG). A Target Group is registering HAProxy ASG instances so NLB will load balance between them. Having separated ASG for HAProxy and Cache allows it to have dedicated automatic scaling and management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HAProxy servers and Cache servers are deployed with Auto Scaling Groups (ASG). A Target Group is registering HAProxy ASG instances so NLB will load balance between them. Having separated ASG for HAProxy and Cache allows it to have dedicated automatic scaling and management.
```

We need to implement something for HAProxy so it could discover and register Cache ASG instances. And there is one thing important to do consistent hashing with HAProxy : a centralized and consistent configuration.

## Centralized configuration

All HAProxy instances need to have the same configuration with the same list of servers, or requests will be splitted differently depending on HAproxy instances.

![Consistent Hashing with different list of servers per HAProxy](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image11.png)
<center><ins>Consistent Hashing with different list of servers per HAProxy</ins></center>

You have a higher chance to have a miss on your cache request as a single object may be at different locations depending on the HAproxy instance.
With a centralized configuration, you can be sure that each HAProxy instance will request the same cache server for the same object.

> Consistent configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consistent configuration  
```

Author: ```suggestion

## Consistent configuration

```

Reviewer 2: "You have a higher chance to have a miss on your cache request" 
have to have, c'est lourd
"You have a higher chance of cache miss", "You are more likely to get a cache miss"…

Reviewer 2: "a single object may be at different locations"
ça veut dire quoi "locations" dans ce contexte ?

> HAProxy consistent hashing is based on backend server IDs. Those IDs correspond to the place of the server in the backend server list. For example, this HAProxy configuration :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HAProxy consistent hashing is based on backend server IDs. These IDs match the position of the server in the backend server list. For example, this HAProxy configuration :
```

```
backend cache
   server CacheA 192.168.0.1:80 #ID = 1
   server CacheB 192.168.0.2:80 #ID = 2
   server CacheC 192.168.0.3:80 #ID = 3
   server CacheD 192.168.0.4:80 #ID = 4
```

will be seen as the following :

![Consistent Configuration Schema 1](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image3.png)

To keep consistent hashing efficient, cache servers need to change ID as little as possible. So HAProxy backend server list needs to be consistent across all HAProxy instances.

If Cache C is removed, configuration has to be like :

> backend cache

Reviewer: This should be in a code block

   server CacheA 192.168.0.1:80          #ID = 1
   server CacheB 192.168.0.2:80          #ID = 2
   server CacheC 192.168.0.3:80 disabled #ID = 3
   server CacheD 192.168.0.4:80          #ID = 4

> CacheC backend server is now [disabled](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#5.2-disabled), until another Cache server takes its place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CacheC backend server is now [disabled](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#5.2-disabled) until another Cache server takes its place.
```

# Solutions

## Consul

At first, we started to configure HAproxy through Consul. We already used it at BedRock, and an [article](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy-and-consul-with-dns-for-service-discovery/) gave us hope to quickly achieve what we wanted. 
Consul Service Discovery with DNS won’t provide sorted/consistent DNS records by design. We can’t have a consistent configuration with it.

Another way of doing so would be to use consul-template for generating backends and registering servers into an HAProxy configuration file. With this approach, we would use a systemd service reload to add new servers to HAProxy.

But [HAProxy Runtime API](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html#9.3) is the recommended way to make frequent changes on configuration, [service reloads considered not being safe](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/dynamic-scaling-for-microservices-with-runtime-api/). 

## AWS EC2 Service Discovery

> HAProxy also released a new functionality called [AWS EC2 Service Discovery](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/aws-ec2-service-discovery-with-haproxy/) in July 2021. We haven’t tested it yet, but it lacks the possibility to keep a consistent list of servers between HAProxy instances, which isn’t good for consistent hashing as discussed before. We opened an [issue on HAProxy dedicated Github repository](https://github.com/haproxytech/dataplaneapi/issues/223).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HAProxy also released a new functionality called [AWS EC2 Service Discovery](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/aws-ec2-service-discovery-with-haproxy/) in July 2021. We haven’t tested it yet, but it lacks the possibility to keep a consistent list of servers between HAProxy instances, which isn’t good for consistent hashing as discussed before. We opened an [issue on HAProxy] dedicated Github repository(https://github.com/haproxytech/dataplaneapi/issues/223).
```

Added to the fact that we were starting to think that Consul was overkill for our needs, we started to implement our own solution.

## HAProxy Service Discovery Orchestrator

What we wanted to achieve was to use maximum managed service from AWS, meet our standard of stability and resilience, and keep things simple. We choose Python with boto3 to implement our solution as it is one of our team’s favorite languages.

> HAProxy Service Discovery Orchestrator (or HSDO) is [open-source](https://github.com/BedrockStreaming/hsdo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HAProxy Service Discovery Orchestrator (or HSDO) is an [open-source](https://github.com/BedrockStreaming/hsdo) orchestrator for HAProxy.
```

> HSDO is composed of a server and a client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is composed of a server and a client. 
```

### HSDO Server

> HSDO Server runs in standalone. It could be a Lambda, but we were more comfortable with system processes when we designed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HSDO Server runs in standalone. It could be a Lambda, but we were more comfortable with system processes when we designed it.  
```

> Its job is to keep track of ec2 instances of one or multiple Cache ASGs and keep a list updated accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its job is to keep track of EC2 instances of one or multiple Cache ASGs and keep a list updated accordingly.
```

HSDO server provides a consistent sorted list of instances. Every time a new cache server appears in the ASG, it is added to the list at a given ID that will never change.
This list is stored in DynamoDB.

![DynamoDB Items View](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image2.png)
<center><ins>DynamoDB Items View</ins></center>

### HSDO Client

> HSDO clients are consuming the DynamoDB table to get the cache servers. HSDO clients run on the same instances as HAProxy and use the runtime API to update HAProxy config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HSDO clients are consuming the DynamoDB table to get the cache servers. The clients run on the same instances as HAProxy and use the runtime API to update HAProxy config.
```

<img src="/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image1.png" alt="HAProxy Status Page" style="width:10em;margin-left: auto;margin-right: auto;display: block;"/>
<center><ins>HAProxy Status Page</ins></center>

Brown lines are disabled servers, while green lines are servers stored in DynamoDB as seen above.

![HSDO in Load Balanced Cache Architecture Schema](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image7.png)
<center><ins>HSDO in Load Balanced Cache Architecture Schema</ins></center>

With this architecture, we achieve both a centralized and consistent configuration to make consistent hashing work at scale for caches.

# Conclusion

> We have been using HSDO since September 2020. We are distributing VOD contents for Salto and 6play streaming platforms and are able to handle at least 10.000 requests/s. This wasn’t possible without a few improvements (on platform cost, timeout funnels, ...) and this will be presented in another post, so keep in touch. ;) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been using HSDO since September 2020. We are distributing VOD content for Salto and 6play streaming platforms and are able to handle at least 10.000 requests/s. This wasn’t possible without a few improvements (on platform cost, timeout funnels, ...) and this will be presented in another post, so keep in touch. ;) 
```

While you have a greater chance with Consistent Hashing that once an object has been cached, you hit it. And you save money by using smaller disks on cache servers and reducing network bandwidth.

# HAProxy implementation

Consistent Hashing at AWS is not available for ALB, ELB and NLB. You need to implement it yourself. To do this, we chose to use HAProxy.
HAproxy is fast and reliable. We use it often, we know it well, and it can use consistent hashing. This is how we architected it. 

![Load Balanced Cache Architecture Schema](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image6.png)
<center><ins>Load Balanced Cache Architecture</ins></center>

HAProxy servers and Cache servers are deployed with Auto Scaling groups (ASG). A Target Group is registering HAProxy ASG instances so NLB will load balance between them. Having separated ASG for HAProxy and Cache allows it to have dedicated automatic scaling and management.

> We need to implement something for HAProxy so it could discover and register Cache ASG instances. And there is one thing important to do consistent hashing with HAProxy : a centralized and consistent configuration.

Reviewer 2: Pour la premi!re phrase ?

> We need to implement something so HAProxy can discover and register Cache ASG instances.

Pour la seconde phrase, je ne la comprends pas trop ; j'ai du mal à la reformuler, donc ; mais je pense qu'il faut la retoucher

## Centralized configuration

> All HAProxy instances need to have the same configuration with the same list of servers, or requests will be splitted differently depending on HAproxy instances.

Reviewer 2: "splitted", je crois que "split" est un verbe irrégulier et qu'il donne "split" dans cette forme, à vérifier

Author: ```suggestion
All HAProxy instances need to have the same configuration with the same list of servers, or requests will be split differently depending on HAproxy instances.
```

![Consistent Hashing with different list of servers per HAProxy](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image11.png)
<center><ins>Consistent Hashing with different list of servers per HAProxy</ins></center>

You have a higher chance to have a miss on your cache request as a single object may be at different locations depending on the HAproxy instance.
With a centralized configuration, you can be sure that each HAProxy instance will request the same cache server for the same object.
Consistent configuration
HAProxy consistent hashing is based on backend server IDs. Those IDs correspond to the place of the server in the backend server list. For example, this HAProxy configuration :

```
backend cache
   server CacheA 192.168.0.1:80 #ID = 1
   server CacheB 192.168.0.2:80 #ID = 2
   server CacheC 192.168.0.3:80 #ID = 3
   server CacheD 192.168.0.4:80 #ID = 4
```

will be seen as the following :

![Consistent Configuration Schema 1](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image3.png)

> To keep consistent hashing efficient, cache servers need to change ID as little as possible. So HAProxy backend server list needs to be consistent across all HAProxy instances.

Reviewer 2: "little" -> "rarely" ?
me semble plus descriptif, incluant une notion de "temps" ?

Reviewer 2: "So HAProxy backend server list needs to be consistent"
Ajouter une virgule après "so". ou supprimer "so".

"needs to be" > "must be" ?

Author: ```suggestion
To keep consistent hashing efficient, cache servers need to change ID rarely. HAProxy backend server list must be consistent across all HAProxy instances.
```

> If Cache C is removed, configuration has to be like :

Reviewer 2: ici "cache C" avec espace ; mais quelques lignes plus bas "cacheC" sans espace. uniformiser.

Author: ```suggestion
If CacheC is removed, configuration has to be like :
```

```
backend cache
   server CacheA 192.168.0.1:80          #ID = 1
   server CacheB 192.168.0.2:80          #ID = 2
   server CacheC 192.168.0.3:80 disabled #ID = 3
   server CacheD 192.168.0.4:80          #ID = 4
```

CacheC backend server is now [disabled](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#5.2-disabled), until another Cache server takes its place.

> ![Consistent Configuration Schema 2](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image4.png)

Reviewer 2: "schema 2" n'est pas vraiment descriptif. moyen de faire plus descriptif ?

Author: Non, c'est un alt, et je n'ai pas mis de titre sur cette image parce que j'ai un paragraphe entier dédié à le décrire.

With consistent configuration : ♠️, ♣️ and ♥️ requests are always balanced to the same cache servers, while ♦️ requests are balanced to another available cache server.  
Without consistent configuration : all requests could be rebalanced to other cache servers. This would mean that for each cache server scale up or down, we no longer have the cached objects: we MISS the cache. This would be inefficient: we would lose the advantage of the cache.

# Solutions

## Consul

At first, we started to configure HAproxy through Consul. We already used it at BedRock, and an [article](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy-and-consul-with-dns-for-service-discovery/) gave us hope to quickly achieve what we wanted. 
Consul Service Discovery with DNS won’t provide sorted/consistent DNS records by design. We can’t have a consistent configuration with it.

> Another way of doing so would be to use consul-template for generating backends and registering servers into an HAProxy configuration file. With this approach, we would use a systemd service reload to add new servers to HAProxy.

Reviewer 2: Soit c'est une commande est ça se formate et y'a pas besoin de "a" :
> we would use `systemd service reload`

Soit ça se met en forme de verbe :
> we would reload systemd

Author: ```suggestion
Another way of doing so would be to use consul-template for generating backends and registering servers into an HAProxy configuration file. With this approach, we would reload systemd to add new servers to HAProxy.
```

> But [HAProxy Runtime API](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html#9.3) is the recommended way to make frequent changes on configuration, [service reloads considered not being safe](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/dynamic-scaling-for-microservices-with-runtime-api/). 

Reviewer 2: "service reloads considered not being safe"
-> "service reloads are considered not safe" ?

Reviewer 2: Ou "service reloads are not considered safe" ?

Author: ```suggestion
But [HAProxy Runtime API](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html#9.3) is the recommended way to make frequent changes on configuration, [service reloads are not considered safe](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/dynamic-scaling-for-microservices-with-runtime-api/). 
```

title: "More efficient Load Balancing and Caching at AWS, using Consistent Hashing and HAProxy"
description: "Why and how, we implement consistent hashing based load balancing at AWS with HSDO"
author:
    name: Tanguy Falconnet
avatar:
email:
twitter: 
github: tfalconnet
category:
tags: [aws, cloud, sysadmin, HAProxy, video, opensource, high availability]
comments: true
image:
  feature: posts/bonnes-pratiques-web/bedrock.jpg
language: en
---

# Introduction
AWS ALB & NLB currently supports Round-Robin (RR) and Least Outstanding Requests (LOR) routing algorithms. But what happens when you try to load balance cache servers with these algorithms? How to implement an effective cache in Cloud at scale?

# Context
At Bedrock we use both ALB & NLB for different use-cases (like [in front of our Kubernetes clusters](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/Three-years-running-kubernetes-on-production-at-Bedrock/)) in our platforms. For our last VOD platform, we needed to be able to load balance heavy content (videos) to our cache servers. We knew that the balancing algorithm was a key factor for our cache in Cloud at scale, and that ALB & NLB won’t be sufficient to achieve our goals. 

> # Balancing algorithm

Author: ```suggestion
# Balancing algorithm

```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Balancing algorithms
```

# Solutions

## Consul

At first, we started to configure HAproxy through Consul. We already used it at BedRock, and an [article](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/haproxy-and-consul-with-dns-for-service-discovery/) gave us hope to quickly achieve what we wanted. 
Consul Service Discovery with DNS won’t provide sorted/consistent DNS records by design. We can’t have a consistent configuration with it.

Another way of doing so would be to use consul-template for generating backends and registering servers into an HAProxy configuration file. With this approach, we would use a systemd service reload to add new servers to HAProxy.

But [HAProxy Runtime API](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html#9.3) is the recommended way to make frequent changes on configuration, [service reloads considered not being safe](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/dynamic-scaling-for-microservices-with-runtime-api/). 

## AWS EC2 Service Discovery

> HAProxy also released a new functionality called [AWS EC2 Service Discovery](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/aws-ec2-service-discovery-with-haproxy/) in July 2021. We haven’t tested it yet, but it lacks the possibility to keep a consistent list of servers between HAProxy instances, which isn’t good for consistent hashing as discussed before. We opened an [issue on HAProxy dedicated Github repository](https://github.com/haproxytech/dataplaneapi/issues/223).

Reviewer 2: "consistent list of servers between HAProxy instances" je me demande s'il faut utiliser "between" ou "across" ?

> Added to the fact that we were starting to think that Consul was overkill for our needs, we started to implement our own solution.

Reviewer 2: "Ajouté au fait que… nous avions commencé à implémenter…"
donc on a commencé à implémenter notre solution **avant** de décider que Consul ne répondait pas au besoin ?

Author: ```suggestion
Added to the fact that we were starting to think that Consul was overkill for our needs, we start to implement our own solution.
```

## HAProxy Service Discovery Orchestrator

> What we wanted to achieve was to use maximum managed service from AWS, meet our standard of stability and resilience, and keep things simple. We choose Python with boto3 to implement our solution as it is one of our team’s favorite languages.

Reviewer 2: "What we wanted to achieve was to use" un poil lourd
"We wanted to use" ?
"Our goal was to use" ?

Reviewer 2: "to use maximum managed service from AWS" ne me semble pas "correct"
"to use AWS managed services as much as possible" ?
(et du coup question : "pourquoi ?")

Reviewer 2: "We choose" = présent, non ?
Si tu veux du passé => "We chose" ?

HAProxy Service Discovery Orchestrator (or HSDO) is [open-source](https://github.com/BedrockStreaming/hsdo).

HSDO is composed of a server and a client. 

### HSDO Server

> HSDO Server runs in standalone. It could be a Lambda, but we were more comfortable with system processes when we designed it.  

Reviewer 2: "runs **in** standalone" ne me semble pas naturel, je n'ai pas l'impression d'avoir déjà lu cette forme. Mais je ne trouve rien non plus qui dise que c'est faux…

"HSDO Server is a standalone application" ?

Author: On m'a fait exactement la remarque contraire dans le gdoc, donc je cloture le débat ici :)

> Its job is to keep track of EC2 instances of one or multiple Cache ASGs and keep a list updated accordingly.

Reviewer 2: "keep track", "keep a list updated" ça peut être formulé plus bref

"its job is to track EC2 instances…"
"… and update a list accordingly"

Author: ```suggestion
Its job is to keep track EC2 instances of one or multiple Cache ASGs and update a list accordingly.
```

HSDO server provides a consistent sorted list of instances. Every time a new cache server appears in the ASG, it is added to the list at a given ID that will never change.
This list is stored in DynamoDB.

![DynamoDB Items View](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image2.png)
<center><ins>DynamoDB Items View</ins></center>

### HSDO Client

> HSDO clients are consuming the DynamoDB table to get the cache servers. The clients run on the same instances as HAProxy and use the runtime API to update HAProxy config.

Reviewer 2: le titre au-dessus est au singulier, mais cette phrase commence au pluriel
=> uniformiser ?

Reviewer 2: "consume", ici, je pense que tu utilises ce mot dans le sens "to use (a resource)" ?
Si oui, consume dans ce sens est surtout utilisé pour dire "jusqu'à ce qu'il n'y en ait plus" ; par exemple, "consommer des messages depuis une file" (= ça vide la file)

Author: ```suggestion
HSDO client is reading the DynamoDB table to get the cache servers. The client run on the same instance as HAProxy and use the runtime API to update HAProxy config.
```

> <img src="/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image1.png" alt="HAProxy Status Page" style="width:10em;margin-left: auto;margin-right: auto;display: block;"/>

Reviewer 2: Pourquoi une balise img ici alors que du markdown ailleurs ? Pour le style ?

Author: Oui, je voulais que l'image soit moins grosse, et du coup alignée.

<center><ins>HAProxy Status Page</ins></center>

Brown lines are disabled servers, while green lines are servers stored in DynamoDB as seen above.

![HSDO in Load Balanced Cache Architecture Schema](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image7.png)
<center><ins>HSDO in Load Balanced Cache Architecture Schema</ins></center>

> With this architecture, we achieve both a centralized and consistent configuration to make consistent hashing work at scale for caches.

Reviewer 2: "both" me semble inutile dans cette phrase, puisque tu donnes les deux choses juste après

Author: ```suggestion
With this architecture, we achieve a centralized and consistent configuration to make consistent hashing work at scale for caches.
```
